Adds new ee release process (#116)
ansible-community/images: docs/community-ee/community-ee-release-process.md

## Release Cadence

> Ansible community Execution Environments(both Base and Minimal) are released the same week as the Ansible Community Package is released. For example: When `Ansible` 11.5.0 (with `ansible-core` 2.18.5) is released, both `Ansible Execution Environment Minimal and Base`  2.18.5-1 will also be released on that same week. Read about this more at https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/getting_started_ee/index.html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible community execution environments (EEs), both the base and minimal variants, are released the same week as the Ansible community package. For example, when `ansible` 11.5.0 with `ansible-core` 2.18.5 is released, the base and minimal EEs version 2.18.5-1 are released within the same week.
```

> Ansible community Execution Environments(both Base and Minimal) are released the same week as the Ansible Community Package is released. For example: When `Ansible` 11.5.0 (with `ansible-core` 2.18.5) is released, both `Ansible Execution Environment Minimal and Base`  2.18.5-1 will also be released on that same week. Read about this more at https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/getting_started_ee/index.html.

Reviewer: I don't think it adds anything to reference the EE getting started guide. In fact it probably risks getting the reader off-topic.

If you feel strongly that link should be included, it shouldn't be a bare url.

Author: Agreed, removed "For example: When `Ansible` 11.5.0 (with `ansible-core` 2.18.5) is released, both `Ansible Execution Environment Minimal and Base`  2.18.5-1 will also be released on that same week. Read about this more at https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/getting_started_ee/index.html."

> Ansible community Execution Environments(both Base and Minimal) are released the same week as the Ansible Community Package is released. For example: When `Ansible` 11.5.0 (with `ansible-core` 2.18.5) is released, both `Ansible Execution Environment Minimal and Base`  2.18.5-1 will also be released on that same week. Read about this more at https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/getting_started_ee/index.html.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ansible community Execution Environments (both Base and Minimal) are released the same week as the Ansible Community Package is released. For example: When `Ansible` 11.5.0 (with `ansible-core` 2.18.5) is released, both `Ansible Execution Environment Minimal and Base`  2.18.5-1 will also be released on that same week. Read about this more at https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/getting_started_ee/index.html.
```
I'm not  sure about the backticks here, though. They only make sense for `ansible-core` IMO (since that's a PyPI package name).

    - EE with core `2.16.2` comes out -> `community-ee:2.16.2-1`
    - EE with core `2.16.3` comes out -> `community-ee:2.16.3-1`

## Credentials

> - Access to https://github.com/ansible-community/images repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the https://github.com/ansible-community/images repository.
```

> - Access to https://github.com/ansible-community/images repo.

Reviewer: When you say "access" to a repository, does that mean having maintainer permissions? Or does it just mean have a fork / clone?

> - Join [Release Management working Matrix room](https://app.element.io/?updated=1.11.38#/room/#release-management:ansible.com) and [Execution Envs group in Forum Group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Join the [Release Management working Matrix room](https://app.element.io/?updated=1.11.38#/room/#release-management:ansible.com) and the [Execution Envs group in Forum Group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
```

> - Access to Ansible Release Management Group in Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the Ansible Release Management Group in Github.
```

Reviewer: Is there a link to this group? How can I check access?

Reviewer 3: It's likely a request to the release management group to add a new person to that team.

Author: Added this "- Access to Ansible Release Management Group in Github. (ask in the aforementioned matrix group)". Does it look good?

Reviewer: I would still add "the" as in my suggestion.

> - Access to [eercheck](https://github.com/anweshadas/eercheck) repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the [eercheck](https://github.com/anweshadas/eercheck) repository.
```

Reviewer: If this repository is an essential part of the EE release workflow it needs to move into the `ansible-community` org. @gundalow FYI.

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

## Prerequisites

- Join the [Release Management working group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/release-managers) and [Execution Environment group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
- Understand [Ansible execution environments](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341).
- Read about the [eerelease.yml](/.github/workflows/eerelease.yml)  GitHub workflow.
- Show intention and book the date for the releasing of the EE.

> -  Prepare the release announcments - both email templates and matrix communication draft ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prepare the release announcement drafts for the emails and matrix communication.
```

Reviewer 3: There is no email template. It's a forum post and a matrix post.

- Shadow the release manager before doing the actual release.

## Build Steps

> On **Terminal**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a new terminal window and then complete the following steps:
```

1. Check the ansible-core version [here](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)

> 2. Verify ansible collection versions for `ansible.posix`, `ansible.utils` and  `ansible.windows` for `deps` file of the ansible version for the related release  [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).

Reviewer: It isn't clear to me what this step actually involves. What is the outcome?

Reviewer 3: I think it's pick the latest ansible-core version in pypi? And find the collection version for these in ansible-build-data for the matching Ansible major.minor version.  Add examples here as that will likely help.

> 3. Go to the images/execution-environments directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Change to the `images/execution-environments` directory.
```

> 4. Create `git branch` (naming convention `ansible-core-ee_version` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a git branch following the naming convention of `ansible-core-<ee_version>`, where <ee_version> matches the related version; for example, 2.17.1-1.
```

```
	git checkout main
	git pull upstream main
	git checkout -b core_version-ee_version

> ```

Reviewer 3: This seems overkill. If a person doesn't know the basics of a git branch, they should not be a release manager imo.

Author: I added this for the ease of copy pasting during the release, anyways I  removed, the steps.

> ```

Reviewer: In this codeblock and the next one, you should reduce some of the whitespace. You probably also want to indent the three ticks that start and close the codeblock so it is nested within the step.

Currently the codeblocks look like this:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae4ac3ee-5b79-4ab3-bfdf-bf9b86f6d1db)

5. Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.
6. Update the ansible-core version in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-minimal/execution-environment.yml` file.

> 7. `git add`,  `git commit` and `git push` the changes and create a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Open a PR with the changes.
```

```
	git add -u
	git status
	git commit -m "Updates ansible-core & collection versions for Base and Minimal"
	git push origin branch_name
```

> 8. Tag @felix and @anweshadas to the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Add @felix and @anweshadas as reviewers of your pull request.
```

Reviewer 3: Since we have an entire release management team, can't we tag the team vs one or two people?

Author: Yup, agreed.

Reviewer: This does not appear to be edited?

> 9. Wait for the PR to get merged.

Reviewer: I would remove this as a step and create a new section to break up the long list of numbered steps. You could say something like:

## Updating the EER check repository

After you complete the build steps, do the following to validate the EE images:

Author: Added.

Reviewer: @anweshadas I don't see this change. Can you check again that it is added?

10. Fork [eercheck repo](https://github.com/anweshadas/eercheck) for testing the versions of thw ansible-core and collections.
11. Create the branch with `git branch <branchname>` (naming convention `ansible-core-ee_version` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)).
12. Open the eerchek/vars.json file and edit the `ansible-core`, `fedora-image` and `ansible-collections` versions there (as mentioned above),
13. Assign @anweshadas to the PR.

> 14. Wait for the PR to get merged.

Reviewer: Again, I'd remove this step and start a new section.

## Publishing the EE images

After both of the preceding pull requests have been merged, open a browser window and complete the following steps:

Author: Applied the changes.

Reviewer: Changes do not seem to be applied?

Author: Added the suggestion as suggested
```
After you complete the build steps, do the following to validate the EE images:

- Fork [eercheck repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/eercheck) for testing the versions of thw ansible-core and collections.
- Create the branch with `git branch <branchname>` (naming convention `ansible-core-ee_version` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)).
- Open the eerchek/vars.json file and edit the `ansible-core`, `fedora-image` and `ansible-collections` versions there (as mentioned above).
- Assign @anweshadas to the PR.
- Wait for the PR to get merged.
```

> 14. Wait for the PR to get merged.

Reviewer 3: We should eventually simplify this. Adding the core/collection versions in two separate repos just makes this a more painful process imo than it needs to be.

Author: Noted, creating a separate issue for this.

15. Once both the abovementioned PRs are merged go to your browser and open  [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo .
16. Click on the `Actions` to open the `Workflows`
17. Click on  the `Release Ansible Excuetion Environment`  and click on the `Run Workflow` Dropdown Button.
18. Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` and `community-ee-minimal`)
19. Write down the version of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .
20. Click on the button if this is the `latest` release of  the particular execution environment
21. Click on the `Run workflow` button to run the workflow for `community-ee-base` or `community-ee-minimal` as the case may be.
22. After the successful run of the workflow, check if the image is published in [here](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).

> 

Reviewer 3: Fix formatting and spelling on steps 15-22.

Author: Does it look good now?

    - EE with core `2.16.2` comes out -> `community-ee:2.16.2-1`
    - EE with core `2.16.3` comes out -> `community-ee:2.16.3-1`

## Credentials (for adding a new person as the Release Manager)

- Access to the https://github.com/ansible-community/images repository.

> -  Join [Release Management working group Matrix room](https://app.element.io/?updated=1.11.38#/room/#release-management:ansible.com) and [Execution Envs group in Forum Group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Join [Release Management working group Matrix room](https://app.element.io/?updated=1.11.38#/room/#release-management:ansible.com) and [Execution Envs group in Forum Group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
```

> - Access to the Ansible Release Management Group in Github. (ask in the aforementioned matrix room).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Access to the Ansible Release Management Group in Github. (Ask in the aforementioned matrix room.)
```

- Access to the [eercheck](https://https://github.com/ansible-community/eercheck) repository.

## Prerequisites

- Join the [Release Management working group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/release-managers) and [Execution Environment group](https://forum.ansible.com/g/ExecutionEnvs).
- Understand [Ansible execution environments](https://forum.ansible.com/t/execution-environments-getting-started-guide-community-ee-images-availability/1341).
- Find out ansible-core version [here](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/) and ansible [here](https://pypi.org/project/ansible/), i.e `ansible.major.minor` version.
- Verify ansible collection versions for `ansible.posix`, `ansible.utils` and  `ansible.windows` for the `ansible.major.minor` version.
+   For eg: `ansible-11.5.0.yaml` file
+   `ansible.posix 1.6.2`
+   `ansible.utils 5.1.2`
+   `ansible.windows 2.8.0`

> +-  [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data) repo.(look into the `deps` file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+-  [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data) repo. (Look into the `deps` file.)
```

- Read about the [eerelease.yml](/.github/workflows/eerelease.yml)  GitHub workflow.
- Show intention and book the date for the releasing of the EE.
- Prepare the release announcement drafts for the emails and matrix communication.
- Shadow the release manager before doing the actual release.

## Build Steps

Open a new terminal window and then complete the following steps:

- Check the ansible-core version [here](https://pypi.org/project/ansible-core/)
- Verify ansible collection versions for `ansible.posix`, `ansible.utils` and  `ansible.windows` for `deps` file of the ansible version for the related release  [ansible-build-data repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data).
- Go to the images/execution-environments directory.
- Create `git branch` (naming convention `ansible-core-ee_version` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)).

> - Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update the ansible-core and collection versions in the `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-base/execution-environment.yml` file.
```

> - Update the ansible-core version in the  `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-minimal/execution-environment.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update the ansible-core version in the `/images/execution-environments/community-ee-minimal/execution-environment.yml` file.
```

> - Push the changes with the following commit messages.`git commit -m "Updates ansible-core & collection versions for Base and Minimal"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Push the changes with the following commit messages: `git commit -m "Updates ansible-core & collection versions for Base and Minimal"`
```

- Add 'release management team'  as reviewers of your pull request.
- Wait for the PR to get merged.

## Updating the EER check repository

After you complete the build steps, do the following to validate the EE images:

> - Fork [eercheck repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/eercheck) for testing the versions of thw ansible-core and collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fork [eercheck repo](https://github.com/ansible-community/eercheck) for testing the versions of ansible-core and collections.
```

- Create the branch with `git branch <branchname>` (naming convention `ansible-core-ee_version` (name it in the related version eg: 2.17.1-1)).
- Open the eerchek/vars.json file and edit the `ansible-core`, `fedora-image` and `ansible-collections` versions there (as mentioned above).
- Assign @anweshadas to the PR.
- Wait for the PR to get merged.

## Run the Workflow

> - Once both the abovementioned PRs are merged go to your browser and open  [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once both the abovementioned PRs are merged go to your browser and open  [ansible-community/images](https://github.com/ansible-community/images) repo.
```

> - Click on the `Actions` to open the `Workflows`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Click on the `Actions` to open the `Workflows`.
```

- Click on  the `Release Ansible Excuetion Environment`  and click on the `Run Workflow` Dropdown Button.
- Click on the Drop down Button and choose the type of the Execution Environment, (whether it is `community-ee-base` and `community-ee-minimal`)

> - Write down the version of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Write down the version of execution environment (to be appended to the ansible-core version).
```

> - Click on the button if this is the `latest` release of  the particular execution environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Click on the button if this is the `latest` release of the particular execution environment.
```

- Click on the `Run workflow` button to run the workflow for `community-ee-base` or `community-ee-minimal` as the case may be.

> - After the successful run of the workflow, check if the image is published in [here](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the sha256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- After the successful run of the workflow, check if the image is published in [here](https://github.com/orgs/ansible-community/packages/container) and get the SHA256 sum of the published image (to be used in the announcement).
```

## Communicate the release

> - For announcement in Forum follow the "./annoucement.md"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For announcement in Forum follow the "./annoucement.md" template.
```

- Make the announcement in the #release-management and #community-working-group Matrix room, Forum and the Bullhorn.

> - For the Release Management Channel  and Community working group in matrix and the Bullhorn just share the link to the forum post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For the Release Management room and Community working group room in matrix and the Bullhorn just share the link to the forum post.
```
